# 2.related work

1.对比学习
2.模态的异质性 语义空间的一致性
3.以文本为中心的融合方法

Multimodal Sentiment Analysis (MSA) seeks to capture multidimensional emotional characteristics by fusing heterogeneous information sources such as text, audio, and visual modalities.
**Early MSA research achieved multimodal representations through feature-level fusion methods.**
The Tensor Fusion Network (TFN) captured high-order cross-modal interactions by computing outer products of modality-specific features.
Building upon TFN, Low-rank Multimodal Fusion (LMF)reduces  costs of high-dimmensional tensors through low-rank decomposition.
MFN  tracks cross-view dynamics with a memory mechanism.
**With the rise of Transformer architectures, attention-based fusion becomes dominant.**
For instance, Feng et al. proposed KuDA, which leverages sentiment knowledge to adaptively weight modalities.
Wu et al. introduced a multi-loss fusion network incorporating context to boost sentiment detection.
Multimodal Transformer (MulT) employs directional pairwise cross-modal attention to realize the interactions between multimodal sequences. 
The Self-Supervised Multi-task Multimodal Sentiment Analysis Network (Self-MM) introduces a self-supervised label generation module to enhance learning of unimodal features.
MAG-BERT injects acoustic and visual information into pretrained language representations through gated adaptation.
**Moreover, to further reduce the modality gap ,contrastive learning is employed to capture intrinsic correlations between modalities and enhance feature representation capabilities.**
For example, Fan et al. propose a multi-level contrastive learning strategy to alleviate the heterogeneity between multiple modalities.
HyCon employs hybrid contrastive learning to model tri-modal representations, cross-modal interactions, and inter-class relationships simultaneously.







